ref(guides): consolidate CT getting started guide (#5389)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: docs/guides/component-testing/getting-started.mdx

---
title: Cypress Component Testing
sidebar_position: 20
sidebar_label: Getting Started
---

Getting started with Component Testing is super simple. Follow the guide below for a step by step guide on how to configure your project and quickly begin writing your first tests in just a few seconds.

## Getting Started

> <DocsVideo

Reviewer: That's exactly what I was trying to explain in https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/pull/5389#issuecomment-1647589500.

> <DocsVideo

Author: Added this sentence to hopefully provide some more clarity https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/pull/5389/commits/257fbb28f029b25550eed7f46fd5d7ce66edd56f#diff-48edbae62488e6e23b4fd93b3593d49e3df9d935d8279ac052ca297d5a8bf1cfR61

  src="/img/snippets/getting-started-with-ct.mp4"
  title="Getting Started With Component Testing"
/>

### Install Cypress

To begin we need to install Cypress in your project if you have not already done so.

```bash
npm install cypress -D
```

### Open Cypress:

Once Cypress has been installed you can launch Cypress using the following command:

```bash

> npx cypress open

Reviewer 2: We can save a step if people open with `--component`, I wonder if that is worth mentioning.

  caption="Choose Component Testing"
/>

### Project Setup

The Project Setup screen will automatically detect your framework and bundler.
Click "Next Step" to continue.

<DocsImage
  src="/img/guides/component-testing/project-setup-react.jpg"
  caption="React and Vite are automatically detected"
/>

### Installing Dependencies

The next screen checks that all the required dependencies are installed. All the
items should have green checkboxes on them, indicating everything is good, so
click "Continue".

<DocsImage
  src="/img/guides/component-testing/dependency-detection-react.jpg"
  caption="All necessary dependencies are installed"
/>

### Config Files

Next, Cypress generates all the necessary configuration files and gives you a
list of all the changes it made to your project. Click "Continue".

<DocsImage
  src="/img/guides/component-testing/scaffolded-files.jpg"
  caption="The Cypress launchpad will scaffold all of these files for you"
/>

### Choose A Browser

After setting up component testing, you will be at the browser selection screen.

Pick the browser of your choice and click the "Start Component Testing" button

> to open the Cypress test runner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to open the Cypress App.
```

<DocsImage
  src="/img/guides/component-testing/select-browser.jpg"
  caption="Choose your browser"
/>

## Writing Your First Test

At this point, your project is configured to use Cypress Component Testing. However, when the test runner appears, it won't find any specs because we haven't created
any yet. Now we need write our first Component Test.

<DocsImage src="/img/guides/component-testing/create-your-first-spec-cfc.jpg" />

### Frameworks

Cypress currently has official mounting libraries for
[React](/guides/component-testing/react/overview),
[Angular](/guides/component-testing/angular/overview),
[Vue](/guides/component-testing/vue/overview), and
[Svelte](/guides/component-testing/svelte/overview).

> In addition to our official framework support we also have many community plugins such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to our official framework support there are many community plugins such as
```

Could we link to this here? https://deploy-preview-5389--benevolent-cat-040f48.netlify.app/guides/component-testing/overview#Community-Supported-Frameworks

[Qwik](https://github.com/qwikifiers/cypress-qwik) and [Lit](https://github.com/redfox-mx/cypress-lit).

### Your First Component Test

> Though every framework is different and have their own unique nuances, in general, writing tests are very similar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Though every framework is different and have their own unique nuances, in general, writing tests is very similar.
```

Reviewer: I think that should be "every framework" ... "has its own unique nuances" ...

Let's look at how a basic test is written for a `StepperComponent`.

> :::note

Reviewer 2: This white-on-white note ends up looking like an aside to me, I skipped it initially. I wonder if it could be a regular paragraph, or some more prominent kind of note.

![Screenshot 2023-07-26 at 10 48 45 AM](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/assets/8340719/e67bacbc-3aa3-43eb-857f-362c52cba742)

to **increment** it as well as `span` tag sits in the middle of the buttons to show the
current value of the counter.

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="React" active>

```jsx
import React from 'react'
import Stepper from './Stepper'

describe('<Stepper />', () => {
  it('mounts', () => {
    // see: https://on.cypress.io/mounting-react
    cy.mount(<Stepper />)
  })
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Angular">

```typescript
import { StepperComponent } from './stepper.component'

describe('StepperComponent', () => {
  it('mounts', () => {
    // see: https://on.cypress.io/mounting-angular
    cy.mount(StepperComponent)
  })
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Vue">

```js
import Stepper from './Stepper.vue'

describe('<Stepper />', () => {
  it('mounts', () => {
    // see: https://on.cypress.io/mounting-vue
    cy.mount(Stepper)
  })
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Svelte">

```js
import Stepper from './Stepper.svelte'

describe('Stepper', () => {
  it('mounts', () => {
    // see: https://on.cypress.io/mounting-svelte
    cy.mount(Stepper)
  })
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Test Explanation

Let's break down the spec. First, we import the `Stepper` component. Then, we

> organize our tests using the functions `describe` and `it`, which we allow us to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
organize our tests using the functions `describe` and `it`, which allows us to
```

group tests into sections by using method blocks. These are global functions
provided by Cypress, which means you don't have to import them directly to use
them. The top-level `describe` block will be the container for all our tests in
a file, and each `it` represents an individual test. The `describe` function
takes two parameters, the first of which is the name of the test suite, and the
second is a function that will execute the tests.

We defined a test using the `it` function inside `describe`. The first parameter
to `it` is a brief description of the spec, and the second parameter is a
function that contains the test code. In our example above, we only have one
test, but soon we'll see how we can add multiple `it` blocks inside of a
`describe` for a series of tests.

:::info

The [cy.mount()](/api/commands/mount) method will mount our component into the test
app so we can begin running tests against it.

:::

Now it's time to see the test in action.

## Running the Test

Switch back to the browser you opened for testing, and you should now see the

> **Stepper** Component in the spec list. Click it to see the spec execute.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a screenshot would help here to show the item in the list, we haven't actually shown the spec list yet (except for in the video).

Author: Added a quick video to show this

> **Stepper** Component in the spec list. Click it to see the spec execute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Stepper` Component in the spec list. Click it to see the spec execute.
```

<DocsImage src="/img/guides/component-testing/first-test-run-react.jpg" />

> Our first test verifies the component can mount in it's default state without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our first test verifies the component can mount in its default state without
```

  cy.mount(Stepper)
  cy.get('[data-cy=decrement]').click()
  cy.get('[data-cy=counter]').should('have.text', '-1')
})
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Svelte">

```js
it('when the increment button is pressed, the counter is incremented', () => {
  cy.mount(Stepper)
  cy.get('[data-cy=increment]').click()
  cy.get('[data-cy=counter]').should('have.text', '1')
})

it('when the decrement button is pressed, the counter is decremented', () => {
  cy.mount(Stepper)
  cy.get('[data-cy=decrement]').click()
  cy.get('[data-cy=counter]').should('have.text', '-1')
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

When you view the results of each of the tests, you will see that the counter is
now "1" in the **increment** test, and "-1" in the **decrement** test. Not only did our
tests pass, but we can visually see the results in a browser!

## Testing Components with Events

All the state of the `Stepper` Component (ie: the count) is handled internally in the
component and then consumers are then alerted to changes to the state.

As the developer of the `Stepper` Component, you want to make sure when the
end-user clicks the **increment** and **decrement** buttons, that the appropriate event is

> trigger with the proper values in the consuming component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
triggered with the proper values in the consuming component.
```

  const changeSpy = cy.spy().as('changeSpy')
  cy.mount(Stepper).then(({ component }) => {
    component.$on('change', changeSpy)
  })
  cy.get('[data-cy=increment]').click()
  cy.get('@changeSpy').should('have.been.calledWithMatch', {
    detail: { count: 1 },
  })
})
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

First, we create a new spy by calling the `cy.spy()` method. We pass in a string
that gives the spy an [alias](/guides/core-concepts/variables-and-aliases),
which assigns the spy a name by which we can reference it later. In
`cy.mount()`, we initialize the component and pass the spy into it. After that,
we click the increment button.

The next line is a bit different. We've seen how we can use the `cy.get()`
method to select elements, but we can also use it to grab any aliases we've set
up previously. We use `cy.get()` to grab the alias to the spy (by prepending an
"@" to the alias name). We assert that the method was called with the expected
value.

With that, the `Stepper` component is well tested. Nice job!

## What's Next?

Congratulations, you covered the basics for Component Testing
with Cypress!

To learn more about testing with Cypress, check out the

> [Introduction to Cypress](/guides/core-concepts/introduction-to-cypress) guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Introduction to Cypress](/guides/core-concepts/introduction-to-cypress) guide.
```

/>

### Choose A Browser

After setting up component testing, you will be at the browser selection screen.

Pick the browser of your choice and click the "Start Component Testing" button
to open the Cypress App.

<DocsImage
  src="/img/guides/component-testing/select-browser.jpg"
  caption="Choose your browser"
/>

## Writing Your First Test

At this point, your project is configured to use Cypress Component Testing. However, when the test runner appears, it won't find any specs because we haven't created
any yet. Now we need write our first Component Test.

<DocsImage src="/img/guides/component-testing/create-your-first-spec-cfc.png" />

### Frameworks

Cypress currently has official mounting libraries for
[React](/guides/component-testing/react/overview),
[Angular](/guides/component-testing/angular/overview),
[Vue](/guides/component-testing/vue/overview), and
[Svelte](/guides/component-testing/svelte/overview).
In addition to our official framework support there are many community plugins such as
[Qwik](https://github.com/qwikifiers/cypress-qwik) and [Lit](https://github.com/redfox-mx/cypress-lit).

### Your First Component Test

> Though every framework is different and have their own unique nuances, in general, writing tests is very similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though every framework is different and has its own unique nuances, in general, writing tests is very similar.
```

Let's look at how a basic test is written for a `StepperComponent`.

Let's assume the Stepper Component consists of two `buttons`, one used to **decrement** the counter and one

> to **increment** it as well as `span` tag sits in the middle of the buttons to show the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to **increment** it as well as a `span` tag that sits in the middle of the buttons to show the
```
